git --version

git config --global user.name "w3schools-test"
git config --global user.email "test@w3schools.com"
Note: Use global to set the username and e-mail for every repository on your computer.
If you want to set the username/e-mail for just the current repo, you can remove global

git status
git status --short
Tracked - files that Git knows about and are added to the repository
Untracked - files that are in your working directory, but not added to the repository

Staged files are files that are ready to be committed to the repository you are working on. 

git add index.html
git add --all   
git add -A

git commit -m "First release of Hello World!"

We are ready move from stage to commit for our repo.
Adding commits keep track of our progress and changes as we work. Git considers each commit change point or "save point".
It is a point in the project you can go back to if you find a bug, or want to make a change.

git log				press q to quit log

git branch hello-world-images

Branches allow you to work on different parts of a project without impacting the main branch.
When the work is complete, a branch can be merged with the main project.
You can even switch between branches and work on different projects without them interfering with each other.

The * beside master specifies that we are currently on that branch.checkout is the command used to check out a branch.
Moving us from the current branch, to the one specified at the end of the command:

git checkout hello-world-images

// Make some changes in the file now and So we need to add both files to the Staging Environment for this branch: git add --all
// So we will commit them to the branch: git commit -m 'Added image to Hello World'

git checkout master

Shortcut to create a new branch and move to it 		git checkout -b emergency-fix

git add .
git commit -m "updated index.html with emergency fix"


Now we merge the current branch (master) with emergency-fix:
git merge emergency-fix

As master and emergency-fix are essentially the same now, we can delete emergency-fix, as it is no longer needed:
git branch -d emergency-fix

//Merge Conflict
git checkout master
git merge hello-world-images



We have already set up a local Git repo, we are going to push that to GitHub:

git remote add https://github.com/ShilpaKeswani/LearnGit.git

git remote add origin URL specifies that you are adding a remote repository, with the specified URL, 
as an origin to your local Git repo.

git push --set-upstream origin master

git stash
The git stash command takes your uncommitted changes (both staged and unstaged),
saves them away for later use, and then reverts them from your working copy

When working as a team on a project, it is important that everyone stays up to date.
Any time you start working on a project, you should get the most recent changes to your local copy.
With Git, you can do that with pull. pull is a combination of 2 different commands:fetch+merge

fetch gets all the changed history of a tracked branch/repo.

git fetch origin

Now that we have the recent changes, we can check our status:

merge combines the current branch, with a specified branch.
git merge origin/master

pull = fetch +merge
git pull origin

//Do some changes to local repository , add the changes and then commit those changes. No Push those changes to github
git push origin

we can use the -a option to see all local and remote branches:
git branch -a
